Hello and welcome back to the course in Python programming.
Today we were talking about matrix operations.
And finally we'll get to play around with our Boscobel daughter and also learn about what kind of operations
they are for matrices in Python.
All right so quickly recap what did we learn last time.
Well we learned that we can access our matrices and information inside matrices using dictionaries.
So let's have a look at.
Let's say we want to look at the salaries matrix which looks like this just because they are to be here
they don't fit on one line.
But basically that's the first row that's the second row and so on.
And what we want is we want to now access a certain player.
So how would we do that.
I would say this would be the role of the player.
This would be a column that we want to access the second year but how do we get information on the role
in the column.
We can use the dictionaries that have been created for us so we can just use the player a dictionary
to find out to watch.
So let's say a LeBron James is on LeBron James.
That's a hash tag that's let's print this.
What role is he on he's on the second row.
And what call them is let's say season dictionary.
What column is 2009 on.
It's on the fourth column and that is including including that nourishes us from zero.
So there we go.
Just take salary and let's say a salary.
We could say two for life.
That's right.
Who gets his salary for that year which was 15 million over 15 million dollars.
Or we can just take this picture and put it in there and take this dictionary and put it in there and
run that.
And there we go.
That's his salary for that year.
So that's what we learned last month.
And now let's learn some matrix operations and what we can do.
We found matrices as we know we have quite a few matrices.
For instance we have field goals which contains information on how many goals each player scored in
which season.
And then let's say we have a Matrix Games which we were quite used to so how many games each player
played.
How would we go about finding out how many field goals per game each player scored.
Right so what would we need to do we would need to take the first value here.
So the first row first column and divide by this then take this value 113 goals scored by Kobe Bryant
in that second year and divided by the number of games he played and there and did that the same thing
.
And so on and so on and then finish that row and move onto the next row so basically would have to have
a loop actually had doubled up so would have to loop across all of the rows and across all of the columns
and perform that operation again and again again until we do that for all of the values in these two
matrices.
So obviously that is way too long and that's why in python we can perform matrix operations very quickly
and let's have a look at that so we can say field goals let's just go into full screen to save some
more space.
So feel the goals divided by games as simple as that.
And so if I run that you'll see that I get this matrix so now we've got a few things to fix up of course
so all right away we've got a bit of a problem here it's not an error it's just a warning.
So here we've got invalid Gallion card in true divide and what that is telling us is that we are dividing
by zero so you can see zero here.
So Derrick Rose doesn't play any games in 2012 because of his injury.
And when you divide zero by zero you get an error.
So to suppress errors in Python or specifically in Jupiter or notebooks what we can do is we can type
in the following code.
So import warnings and then from warnings so far going into too much detail we'll just get rid of these
errors because they're meant to safeguard us from making mistakes but we know with why this error is
coming up it's because we're dividing by zero and we totally fine with it.
So let's just say ignore here.
So just copy this code without going into too much detail on how this works and just copy that around
Atlanta.
You can see that the air is gone.
Now again this matrix doesn't look that aesthetic because there's too much too many decimal points so
we're going to do is we're going to round but we can just use the normal round function so if we try
using the normal round function here we get an error.
Would we need to use is the special matrix drawn function which is in the PI package under matrix and
then dot round if you run that then you will get no errors because that function is designed to work
with matrices.
So as a result for we got is we got one matrix divided by the other what basically happens is the matrix
matrices are divided element by element.
So obviously they have to be of the same size and dimensions.
But once that is condition is met with it just happens every element of each matrix is divided by the
sociate element of the other one.
And so in the result we get a matrix again as we saw and then to that matrix we're applying the round
function for matrices.
And here you can see that not available value does because we're dividing 0 by zero so it just replaces
it with any and and then we go.
So here right away we can see very quickly the field goals per game.
So how many games players scored on average how many goals each player scored per game in every season
on average.
And once again if we want to save this we can always go say it in two field goals for a game something
like that.
So we run that and then we can apply the same concept as before we can access any player using these
quick tools that we've created using dictionaries so we can say Derrick I'm picking on Derrick Rose
here.
Derrick Rose in 2009 on average scored 9 goals per game whereas let's say Kobe Bryant on average score
10 goals per game.
All right so that's how Matrix division works and that's what main operation will be applied.
Of course you can add matrices subtract divide multiply all of those basic operations.
Let's have a look at another one the ones that are most interest to us is the division because that
way we get to normalize these values and find more insights into our data and that's ultimately what
we're doing in this challenge in this section of the course.
So that's another one.
Let's say we want to look at minutes late.
So how many minutes each player play per game on average.
There we go.
So that's another matrix of minutes per game so you can see again not placable here.
And how is this.
Why is this matrix useful like in terms of insights why and why would we want to create this matrix
.
So the reason why I would want to create this matrix is just look at Minutes played by itself.
So what you'll notice here is that because there are crows was recovering from his injury here and Kobe
Bryant also had an injury here it looks like they didn't play that many minutes or so minutes played
you can see it's only 100 Sincero 311 compared to other years.
It's not much when you compare it like that compared it looks like it wasn't much and you can't really
compare them across different seasons.
But at the same time if you divide by the number of games and you get a normalized value what you will
see is now here.
He actually played 31 minutes per game on average which is even more than in a season in the following
season.
Right.
Or here.
Kobe Bryant played 30 minutes per game on average.
It is less but it is still comparable to his other seasons.
Right.
And comparable to other players so that normalization process allows you to come up with more comparable
values like that.
So there we go that's how you can normalize or divide matrices one by the other and perform other matrix
operations as well.
What I'd like to encourage you to do is to play around with that and see what other matrices and what
other insights you can come up with from performing such operations with Matrix matrices that we have
.
For example if we scroll to the top which you'll see here is that we've got that matrix.
So salary's you could play around with that game's an interesting one would be if you look at field
goals divide by field goal attempts.
So field goals is actually how many they got in the net and field goal attempts how many times they
tried to score.
So for instance Kobe Bryant here nine hundred seventy eight basketballs went in the net and he tried
2170 three times right so it would be interesting to divide one by the other and that would give you
the accuracy of the players.
How accurate are they scoring those and see if you can perform that and see what insights you can derive
from them and I'll see you on the next tutorial.
Until then happy coding